all right so right now  we're going to talk about video game  addiction  [Music]  and this is something that i think a lot  of people my age 20 years old have  struggled with i think a lot of people  that are in college struggle with i have  been playing games since i was a  juvenile and  throughout my adolescent years most of  my teenage and adult life i love playing  games recently i've been getting  feelings of guilt and regret i'm  starting to feel like i'm wasting my  life and that i don't really have a  purpose  in life i kind of use games to escape  that feeling but the more i play games  the stronger those feelings get so i've  decided for my own mental health and my  own good that it's time to uninstall all  of my games actually i've been clean for  a few days now but i haven't officially  removed all of my games on my computer  so the temptation is still there it's  time to make it official and actually do  it  this video was supposed to be more of a  skit  uh  unfortunately it's actually a serious  topic the reason why i quit video games  uh  two days ago  so it's nothing to really show for  itself i don't really have much  documentation i've spent a total  the total number of hours that i've  spent since 2017 on video games was  around 6 000 hours  so it's a lot it's a lot of time reason  number one is that  it's just a waste of time right everyone  knows this  me personally myself i've probably got  about 10 000 hours stacked up on league  of legends and then  about another [ __ ]  probably 3 000 on every other game this  isn't a problem  if  that time you're putting in  is actually  making something you know you're  learning a proper life skill  i know for 99 of us that is not the case  all right i just two days ago i said hey  i'm  not really getting much out of this i'm  just going to stop so  ah the reason  how i put this  it's like i wasn't even a fan of the  game that i was playing you know  like with league of legends uh rocket  league  i'm not  necessarily a fan of the game i just  want  to like  achieve a rank so i can flex my friends  which is superficial and  it is not worth the time that i put into  it i've reached  diamond three  in league i know that's pretty [ __ ]  horrendous but still  uh i mean it's top one percent of  players  and  i'm pretty damn good at apex as well  so  yeah i don't i don't just play fun and  what comes with that is that  when i play with my mates and everything  you know  i always  get angry when they do something wrong  and so if it makes you angry then well  obviously  you shouldn't be playing because not  only does that  make you upset it makes the people you  play with upset and influences the rest  of your life  so you get off angry after  playing a game of league you might be  angry to your family  or your girlfriend or something like  that you know just little things that  leak into the rest of your life that  could be avoided if you just quit all  together ask yourself if you're playing  if you're addicted to a video game and  you're playing at least three hours a  day would you keep playing that video  game if that ranking system was not  there if you answer no to that question  you should probably quit gaming with  esports  you could be sitting here in this chair  for probably like  10 hours a day just non-stop playing  yeah that's really one of the reasons  why i quit  i'm quitting i'm i haven't quit you know  what i'm saying it's been two days so  that's one of the reasons why i'm  quitting playing video games  this is going to be hard then i thought  because i'm not  standing up from this chair  okay okay let's just do this here we are  oh  this is going to be hard i fix legends  on it  [Music]  or  i actually feel bad for uninstalling all  of my games because it took so much data  to download  [Music]  stones  this is much harder than i thought  [Music]  i was so quick  no memorial  no flowers just  gone  hours  of my life  a few minutes of uninstallations and  self-pity later okay  it's official  now plus like i realized something  this might sound like  kind of stupid but  um  i don't know how to put this one sec  okay so  it was christmas right right now it's  january 22nd my uh 23rd 24th right now  is january 24th  um  for christmas  made my girlfriend do like a gift  exchange right but she was signaling to  me like hey she was like i don't know  what to do for you  and i was like well what hobbies do i  have like i thought of that in my head  as i was like  talking to her and i was like what  hobbies i have  and i was like i don't really have any  hobbies besides playing video games and  studying  you know so  there's nothing like what am i what's my  girlfriend going to get me for christmas  you know some game controller i don't  want that it sounds lame  i might take that out of the video the  people i play with  than  barely my real friends anymore right so  this is a bit personal for me but  a lot of the people i play with i used  to go to high school with and over time  we kind of just substituted  playing games instead of hanging out and  whatnot  right so  from about  18 onwards we just kind of  played games together instead of hung  out i think i've only seen one of them  for about an hour  in the last three years i was thinking  about what if i actually put those 6 000  hours into my career  how much better would i be at my career  you know what i'm saying so  video games for me  after six thousand hours of playing they  don't really have a return  it's not something physical that i can  hold in my hand and i can show an  employer and i can be like hey  you know like there's nothing really i  can you can really do  so is it really the lifestyle you want  to have is it really you know like what  i feel proud of saying to my like  friends that hey i  like when i talk to my friends i don't  really feel proud that i'm like hey  i have three thousand hours in rock  league  [Applause]  [Music]  earlier today my girlfriend sent me a  link about some kind of academic  opportunity  in taiwan it's no big deal wasn't that  serious  but i said to her with no hesitation  right away look  if this is good if there's some real  opportunity  to learn chinese to improve your chinese  in taiwan  i can pack up everything i'm doing we  can move there  the day after tomorrow  it's not that i don't have  other plans  i do  i have other ambitions i have other  plans but i said to her look  six months in taiwan  one year in taiwan if you and me both  really hit the books  really study chinese really give it 110  a short period of time like that  can change your life  forever  can change it for the better if you're  motivated  if  you're really going to make the most of  it  there are certain things  implicitly built into  my willingness  to move to taiwan and whatever it was 10  years ago to move to cambodia 20 years  ago to move to los the crazy sudden  relocations  around the world i've engaged in from  time to time  there are certain  implicit  assumptions about my life  should be made explicit here  i do not own a dog  i've never owned a car  quite intentionally  i have not built up any of the kind of  attachments or obligations  that would keep me  pinned down to this place  nobody thinks about  walking the dog  as an addiction  right you're not addicted  to pet ownership  and yet the fact of the matter is  it's inconceivable to you or it's  inconceivable to most people to just  pack up and go start new life in  cambodia pack up and go start new life  in taiwan even if there's some really  positive opportunity whether it's an  educational opportunity a business  opportunity whatever it may be  just because  you own a dog  or just because you own a video game  console  and the reality is your life revolves  around walking that dog and plugging in  and playing video games on that console  these kinds of distractions that you  never took on  as a major commitment you never took on  as a project you never thought of in  terms of like goals and outcomes but in  reality they are shaping  the goals  and outcomes in your life  i've got a project right now that really  distracts me that really consumes me  frankly i stayed up till 30 minutes  after midnight last night  trying to finish a book chapter i'm  writing two books at the same time one  of them is going to be finished tomorrow  or the day after tomorrow it's going to  be going up on  amazon lickety-split uh  veganism colon the future of an illusion  okay so i'm working hard  against a completely  self-imposed deadline there is no  publisher right there is no deadline  um  i really thought about  buying an airplane ticket  to go to the ukraine in  the civil war whatever you want to say  the russian invasion  starting to mount  melissa sat here with me and i looked at  the price of airplane tickets and i even  got into  you know  looking at different books i could order  from amazon teach yourself how to speak  ukrainian in five days this kind of  thing started to get into it you know  you know why ultimately i decided right  now i wouldn't make a trip to ukraine  and yeah yeah yeah i don't have to get  into the details you fly to poland then  you travel over land you cross the land  you'll be doing the same thing all the  journalists are doing the journalists  who work for cnn or bbc any major  mainstream journals i'd be doing it but  the difference being there's no paycheck  in it for me right  yeah i'm willing to do that  but i sat here and i thought about it i  looked at the price of the airplane  ticket and you know what mattered more  was that right now  my top priority is writing that book  i've got two books and i want to finish  the manuscript before i move on to doing  anything else  i want to finish writing those books  before i study chinese or before i  study spanish or before i get a straight  job where that job is working in a  warehouse or at 7-11 or whatever it  turns out to be no reason to think i've  got a bright future that right now i  have this  priority which is finishing  the composition of these two books and  then self-publishing  on  amazon right  you can criticize that decision you  could say it's a stupid decision you  could say it's a wrong decision you  could say hey i would have been better  off  having a vacation in ukraine as the  bombs come  tumbling down  but at least it's a decision  i consciously  made  most people  live lives  in which their priorities are dictated  by their habits not even addictions  just  habits  whether that be a video game console  or a habit  as regular as walking the dog